gh-132742: Update documentation for the fcntl module (#132765)
python/cpython: Doc/library/fcntl.rst

The module defines the following functions:

.. function:: fcntl(fd, cmd, arg=0, /)

   Perform the operation *cmd* on file descriptor *fd* (file objects providing
   a :meth:`~io.IOBase.fileno` method are accepted as well).  The values used
   for *cmd* are operating system dependent, and are available as constants
   in the :mod:`fcntl` module, using the same names as used in the relevant C

>    header files. The argument *arg* can either be an integer value, or a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   header files. The argument *arg* can either be an integer value, a
```

   :class:`bytes` object, or a string.

>    The type and the size of *arg* must match the type and the size of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The type and size of *arg* must match the type and size of
```

>    :class:`bytes` object, or a string.

Reviewer 2: Looks like it accepts any readable buffer

Author: It may accept other buffers without `bf_releasebuffer`, but `bytes` is the only standard type. Read-only `memoryview` or `mmap` are not supported.

>    the argument of the operation as specified in the relevant C documentation.

Reviewer: Link?

Author: Depending on platform. Various manpages on Posix systems, some Microsoft links on Windows.

   With an integer value, the return value of this function is the integer

>    return value of the C :c:func:`fcntl` call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   With an integer value, this function returns the integer
   return value of the C :c:func:`fcntl` call.
```
rewording suggestion

Author: It was in the old documentation. Perhaps there was a reason for such wording.

Reviewer 2: I think the rewording is better, I think this is even clearer though:

```suggestion
   When *arg* is an integer, the function returns the integer
   return value of the C :c:func:`fcntl` call.
```

Reviewer: @JelleZijlstra Serhiy didn’t want to change the existing docs. Also I agree your suggestion is better.

Author: It is not that I object changing it, but I want to be careful with this, because I can miss some subtle changes in semantic. If several people think that it needs rewriting, then perhaps there is an issue with old wording.

   When the argument is bytes, it represents a binary structure,

>    e.g. created by :func:`struct.pack`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   for example, created by :func:`struct.pack`.
```
[devguide](https://devguide.python.org/documentation/style-guide/#use-simple-language)

   A string value is encoded to binary using the UTF-8 encoding.
   The binary data is copied to a buffer whose address is
   passed to the C :c:func:`fcntl` call.  The return value after a successful
   call is the contents of the buffer, converted to a :class:`bytes` object.
   The length of the returned object will be the same as the length of the
   *arg* argument. This is limited to 1024 bytes.

   If the :c:func:`fcntl` call fails, an :exc:`OSError` is raised.

   .. note::

>       If the type or the size of *arg* does not match the type or the size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      If the type or the size of *arg* does not match the type or size
```

      of the argument of the operation (for example, if an integer is
      passed when a pointer is expected, or the information returned in
      the buffer by the operating system is larger than 1024 bytes),
      this is most likely to result in a segmentation violation or

>       a more subtle data corruption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      If the type or size of *arg* does not match that of the operation's argument
      (for example, if an integer is passed when a pointer is expected, or the
      information returned in the buffer by the operating system is larger
      than 1024 bytes), it will most likely result in a segmentation violation or
      more subtle data corruption.
```
Slight rewording suggestion

Author: This was mainly the moved old documentation.

   .. audit-event:: fcntl.fcntl fd,cmd,arg fcntl.fcntl

.. function:: ioctl(fd, request, arg=0, mutate_flag=True, /)

   This function is identical to the :func:`~fcntl.fcntl` function, except
   that the argument handling is even more complicated.

   The *request* parameter is limited to values that can fit in 32-bits

>    or 64-bits, depending on platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The *request* parameter is limited to values that can fit in 32-bits
   or 64-bits, depending on the platform.
```

   Additional constants of interest for use as the *request* argument can be
   found in the :mod:`termios` module, under the same names as used in
   the relevant C header files.

   The parameter *arg* can be one of an integer, a :term:`bytes-like object`,

>    or a string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The parameter *arg* can be an integer, a :term:`bytes-like object`,
   or a string.
```
unnecessary

>    The type and the size of *arg* must match the type and the size of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The type and size of *arg* must match the type and size of
```

>    the argument of the operation as specified in the relevant C documentation.

Reviewer: Link?

Reviewer 3: I was thinking the same thing, but since most `fcntl` values are platform-dependent there probably isn't a good documentation link to use here.

   If *arg* does not support the read-write buffer interface or

>    a *mutate_flag* is false, behaviour is as for the :func:`~fcntl.fcntl`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the *mutate_flag* is false, behavior is as for the :func:`~fcntl.fcntl`
```

   function.

   If *arg* supports the read-write buffer interface (like :class:`bytearray`)
   and *mutate_flag* is true (the default), then the buffer is (in effect) passed
   to the underlying :c:func:`!ioctl` system call, the latter's return code is
   passed back to the calling Python, and the buffer's new contents reflect the
   action of the :c:func:`ioctl`.  This is a slight simplification, because if the
   supplied buffer is less than 1024 bytes long it is first copied into a static
   buffer 1024 bytes long which is then passed to :func:`ioctl` and copied back
   into the supplied buffer.

   If the :c:func:`ioctl` call fails, an :exc:`OSError` exception is raised.

   .. note::

>       If the type or the size of *arg* does not match the type or the size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      If the type or size of *arg* does not match the type or size
```

>       of the argument of the operation (for example, if an integer is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      operations argument (for example, if an integer is
```

>       If the type or size of *arg* does not match the type or size
>       operations argument (for example, if an integer is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      If the type or size of *arg* does not match the type or size
      of the operation's argument (for example, if an integer is
```
Grammar fix up

      passed when a pointer is expected, or the information returned in
      the buffer by the operating system is larger than 1024 bytes,
      or the size of the mutable bytes-like object is too small),

>       this is most likely to result in a segmentation violation or
>       a more subtle data corruption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      it is most likely to result in a segmentation violation or
      a more subtle data corruption.
```
Continues on from previous suggestion

   The *request* parameter is limited to values that can fit in 32-bits
   or 64-bits, depending on platform.
   Additional constants of interest for use as the *request* argument can be
   found in the :mod:`termios` module, under the same names as used in
   the relevant C header files.

   The parameter *arg* can be one of an integer, an object supporting the
   read-only buffer interface (like :class:`bytes`) or an object supporting
   the read-write buffer interface (like :class:`bytearray`).
   The parameter *arg* can be one of an integer, a :term:`bytes-like object`,
   or a string.
   The type and the size of *arg* must match the type and the size of
   the argument of the operation as specified in the relevant C documentation.

   In all but the last case, behaviour is as for the :func:`~fcntl.fcntl`
   If *arg* does not support the read-write buffer interface or
   a *mutate_flag* is false, behaviour is as for the :func:`~fcntl.fcntl`
   function.

   If a mutable buffer is passed, then the behaviour is determined by the value of
   the *mutate_flag* parameter.

   If it is false, the buffer's mutability is ignored and behaviour is as for a

>    read-only buffer, except that the 1024 byte limit mentioned above is avoided --

Author: This was incorrect, the 1024 byte limit is not avoided if mutate_flag is false.

   .. note::

>       If the type or the size of *arg* does not match the type or the size

Author: In the C documentation, the type is int or a pointer to specific structure. The Python argument must be int or a bytes-like object of the corresponding size.
